extractor/README.md, before:

# Valence Extractor

This is a Fabric mod for Minecraft that extracts data about different things in Minecraft, like blocks, packets, etc. All the extracted data is stored in the sibling `extracted` folder.

## How to use

Here's how to regenerate the contents of `extracted`.

From this directory, run the following

```sh
./gradlew runServer
```

This will run the extractor and immediately exit, outputting the files that are listed in the logs.

Next, run `copy_extractor_output.sh`. This copies the files to `extracted` so that they can be committed.

```sh
./copy_extractor_output.sh
```

## How to update valence to a new version of Minecraft

The general process should go something like this:
1. Update `gradle.properties` to the new version of Minecraft using https://fabricmc.net/develop
2. Update `src/main/resources/fabric.mod.json` to reference new version of Minecraft
3. Update `PROTOCOL_VERSION` and `MINECRAFT_VERSION` constants in `valence_core/src/lib.rs`
4. Attempt to run `./gradlew runServer` and fix any errors that come up
5. Run `./copy_extractor_output.sh`
6. In `*.toml`s, replace all strings of the old mc version with the new mc version
7. Try all the examples. If they work, you're probably done.


If you need to update gradle, running this will automatically update the wrapper to the specified version, and update `gradle/gradle-wrapper.properties`.
```sh
./gradlew wrapper --gradle-version VERSION
```

You may also need to update the fabric mappings in the mod.
```sh
./gradlew migrateMappings --mappings "VERSION"
```

## Contributing

Run `./gradlew genSources` to generate Minecraft Java source files for your IDE.

Commit message:

Yeet Symlinks (#484)
# Objective

Turns out that symlinks in git repos are a bad idea because Windows.
Windows users were not able to use the project as a git dependency
because the symlinks broke.

# Solution

- Remove `extracted` folder and move generated files into the relevant
packages.
- Update documentation and `copy_extractor_output.sh`.

extractor/README.md, after:

# Valence Extractor

This is a Fabric mod for Minecraft that extracts data about different things in Minecraft, like blocks, packets, etc. The extracted data is stored within the Rust packages that need them.

## How to use

Here's how to regenerate the contents of `extracted`.

From this directory, run the following

```sh
./gradlew runServer
```

This will run the extractor and immediately exit, outputting the files that are listed in the logs.

Next, run `copy_extractor_output.sh`. This copies the files to the appropriate locations so that they can be committed.

```sh
./copy_extractor_output.sh
```

## How to update valence to a new version of Minecraft

The general process should go something like this:
1. Update `gradle.properties` to the new version of Minecraft using https://fabricmc.net/develop
2. Update `src/main/resources/fabric.mod.json` to reference new version of Minecraft
3. Update `PROTOCOL_VERSION` and `MINECRAFT_VERSION` constants in `valence_protocol/src/lib.rs`
4. Attempt to run `./gradlew runServer` and fix any errors that come up
5. Run `./copy_extractor_output.sh`
6. In `*.toml`s, replace all strings of the old mc version with the new mc version
7. Try all the examples. If they work, you're probably done.


If you need to update gradle, running this will automatically update the wrapper to the specified version, and update `gradle/gradle-wrapper.properties`.
```sh
./gradlew wrapper --gradle-version VERSION
```

You may also need to update the fabric mappings in the mod.
```sh
./gradlew migrateMappings --mappings "VERSION"
```

## Contributing

Run `./gradlew genSources` to generate Minecraft Java source files for your IDE.
